README.md, before:

# ptonCycle

# Goals
- Help cyclers in Princeton make the most of it, especially newcomers!
- Produce planning relevant information to make Princeton even better for cyclers.

# Ideas:
- Baseline is give people easy access to some resources, and allow to report trips to DVRPC.
- Help people decide routes. Common is shortest path; other options are user planning, or suggest spots to pass through.
- Sports/tracking: miles, speed, elevations. Graph'em, upload to existing sites, compare to others.
- Allow reporting of bike relevant stuff:
 - New bike rack, broken bike rack, full bike rack (app shows next nearest)
 - Pothole, car on bike lane or other danger. 
 - Into Access Princeton? API? 
 - Community accessible, mapped DB?

# Links:
- https://github.com/mendhak/gpslogger kit: tracks your location in a battery-saving manner.  
- https://github.com/PhillyOpen/Cycle-Philly-Android Reports trips to DVRPC
- Princeton Pedestrian and Bike Advisory Committee website and blog: http://www.princetonnj.gov/bicycle.html http://pjpbac.blogspot.com

Commit message:

More links, ideas etc from slack channel.

README.md, after:

# ptonCycle

# Goals
- Help cyclers in Princeton make the most of it, especially newcomers!
- Produce planning relevant information to make Princeton even better for cyclers.

# Ideas:
- Baseline is give people easy access to some resources, and allow to report trips to DVRPC.
- Shows maps of: bike racks, bike share etc. Use OSM as citizen evolved data repo.
- Help people decide routes. Common is shortest path; other options are user planning, or suggest spots to pass through.
- Sports/tracking: miles, speed, elevations. Graph'em, upload to existing sites, compare to others. Beeminder integration? other APIs?
- Allow (or even elicit) reporting of bike relevant stuff:
 - New bike rack, broken bike rack, full bike rack (app shows next nearest)
 - Pothole, car on bike lane, difficult intersection or other danger. 
 - Into Access Princeton? API? 
 - Community accessible, mapped DB?
- Games:
 - Earn points for covering new routes
 - For giving feedback
 - For chiming in on others reports
- Utility to convert GPX or KML file to the JSON file format that Cycle Philly server receives, reach out to users of existing devices (gateway drug to our app! ;) )
- 
# We need:
- If you bike a lot, and use some apps or would consider it, welcome to join in!
- Any experience in Android programming would be great! Web stuff is also likely.
- Writers: someone needs to read some links and write a short guide to cycling in Princeton (with links to more detail)
- Experience with GIS related formats/software including just using it, especially OSM but others too.
- People knowledgable about transit/cycles/bicycle in Princeton.

# Links and communities:
- https://github.com/mendhak/gpslogger kit: tracks your location in a battery-saving manner.  
- https://github.com/PhillyOpen/Cycle-Philly-Android Reports trips to DVRPC
- http://www.cyclestreets.net/mobile/android/ A non-open source app that is interesting
- https://github.com/crvanpollard/DVRPC-geodata includes the Mercer County Bike Map in shapefile format and other datasets.
- Princeton Pedestrian and Bike Advisory Committee (PBAC) website and blog: http://www.princetonnj.gov/bicycle.html http://pjpbac.blogspot.com
- PBAC mailing list - reaches over 200 people. 
- West Windsor Bicycle Pedestrian Alliance
- Princeton Free Wheelers Facebook page. Princeton Freewheelers is a local bike club.
- 'Bike Princeton' Facebook page
- Relevant OSM tags: http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:amenity%3Dbicycle_parking and  http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:amenity%3Dbicycle_rental for bikeshare
- OSM based services http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/List_of_OSM-based_services such as CycleStreets
- 
See the file PlanningContext.md for what we know about how trips can get used.
- [ ] Add PlanningContext.md
